about.md, before:

---
author: admin
comments: false
date: 2008-08-19 00:52:03+00:00
layout: page
slug: about
group: navigation
title: About Me
---

# Biography

<img src="https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/F3Gw2Zy0HKGre0z4ovkDlz4e1WX3E4VCnUrhpQE7QUOuGzIJEXYTO149BBrK2Qqek-F0D9PFq6fvwKL1uZNQ0_DNitjM0lMgBAEsWI_1vUYwGCauHcc4rKYnEg" alt="Me" style="width: 100%;"/>
By day, Andrew is a Researcher at The University of Liverpool (formerly at Queen’s University Belfast’s [ECIT](http://ecit.qub.ac.uk) Institute) investigating Trust and Reputation in Marine Communications for Autonomous Systems of Systems under the joint Anglo-French Defence Research Group, established at the [2010 Anglo-French Summit](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lancaster_House_Treaties_%282010%29)

TL;DR Communication between Smart Submarines

By night, he’s the Founding Director of [Farset Labs](http://farsetlabs.org.uk), Northern Ireland’s [First Hackerspace]({{ BASE_PATH }}/2011/04/why-belfast-needs-a-hackerspace/), located in Weavers Court Business Park, Belfast, as well as consulting local government, business, academia, and the voluntary sector on STEM Outreach, Business Innovation Strategy, and Communications & Data Security.

Andrew [developed]({{ BASE_PATH }}/2010/06/great-hopes/) Farset Labs while finishing off his Masters in Electronics and Software Engineering at QUB. [Farset Labs](http://farsetlabs.org.uk) now provides the technical and entrepreneurial community with a place to share resources, knowledge and experience in a relaxed atmosphere, laying the foundation for the next wave of Northern Irish industry-leading technologists and business leaders.

He is an accomplished technologist, having worked in a range of fields including Telecommunications Engineering, Test Engineering, Advertising Consultancy, Workshop Facilitation, and Innovation Consultancy.

He’s a recipient of the 2012 [Belfast Business Top 50](http://belfastmediagroup.com/top50/15955-2/) for his work at Farset Labs, the QUB The [T G Christie Award](http://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/AcademicStudentAffairs/AcademicAffairs/ScholarshipsAwards/ScholarshipsAwardsHandbook/ScholarshipsandBursaries/PostgraduateScholarshipsAwards/FacultyofEngineeringandPhysicalSciences/) for Most Promising Postgraduate and The Liggard Prize for Best Communications Engineering Masters Project. He is a [IET Excellence Grant](http://conferences.theiet.org/achievement/-documents/brochure-2010.cfm) recipient and a National Finalist in the IET Present Around the World competition where he spoke on information theory of social networks in 2010  

## What's my Schedule?

<iframe style="border-width: 0;" src="https://www.google.com/calendar/b/0/embed?src=me%40andrewbolster.info&amp;showTitle=0&amp;showPrint=0&amp;showCalendars=0&amp;mode=WEEK&amp;height=600&amp;wkst=2&amp;bgcolor=%23FFFFFF&amp;ctz=Europe%2FLondon" height="600" scrolling="no" width="800" frameborder="0"></iframe>

[My Linkedin Profile](http://www.linkedin.com/in/andrewbolster) - [PDF version](http://www.linkedin.com/profile?viewProfilePDF=&key=41510103)

# Press/Publications/Podcasts

	
  * 18/2/12:[A Different Road](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0262407912604485) - New Scientist

	
  * 25/3/12:[Muckraker Partners with Farset Labs (Blog)](http://muckraker.me/2012/03/25/announcing-the-muckrakers-partnership-with-farset-labs/) - Muckraker

	
  * 18/6/12:[Andrew Bolster from Farset Labs talking to Linzi Corr at ITE Belfast](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qeaN_2xU2hk) - Brightwater Recruitment

	
  * 11/9/12:[Belfast one of 16 UK cities to get 4G mobile services in 2012](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-19558312) - BBC News

	
  * 12/10/12:[Farset Labs makes it into Belfast Business Top 50](http://belfastmediagroup.com/top50/belfast-business-top-50-list-2012/) - Belfast Media Group

	
  * 6/11/12:[The Tech Show (Podcast)](http://eamonnmallie.com/2012/11/tech-show-podcast-episode-26/) - iChrisTaylor

	
  * 19/11/12:[Northern Ireland economy needs to make space for technological innovation and creativity](http://www.businessfirstonline.co.uk/?p=10387) - BusinessFirstOnline

	
  * 17/12/12:[Imagining a Digital Future ](http://www.ulsterbusiness.com/articles/2012/12/17/imagining-a-digital-future)- Ulster Business

	
  * 18/1/13: [Global Game Jam hackathon set for Belfast this month](http://www.siliconrepublic.com/innovation/item/31099-global-game-jam-hackathon/) - Silicon Republic

	
  * 18/1/13: [Weekend hackathon set for Belfast](http://www.ulsterbusiness.com/articles/2013/01/18/weekend-hackathon-set-for-belfast) - Ulster Business

	
  * 21/1/13: [Belfast Hub for Global Games Jam](http://www.newsletter.co.uk/news/business/local-businesses/belfast-hub-for-global-games-jam-1-4705625) - Newsletter

	
  * 23/1/13: [Global Game Jam: Belfast to take part for first time](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-21142798) - BBC News

	
  * 24/1/13: [Global Game Jam Hits Belfast ](http://www.followingthenerd.com/video-games/global-game-jam-hits-belfast/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=global-game-jam-hits-belfast)- Following The Nerd

	
  * 7/2/13: [Tech Britain Coverage](http://techbritain.com/videos/watch/43) - TechBritain

	
  * 5/9/13: [Experimenting with ICT in Belfast ](http://www.agendani.com/experimenting-with-ict-in-belfast/)- AgendaNI

# Speaking Engagements / Panels

	
  * 20/11/12: NISP - [Generation Innovation Awards Ceremony 2012](http://www.nisp.co.uk/top-entrepreneurs-inspire-next-generation/) - Speaking

	
  * 28/11/12: Bank of Ireland [Junior Dragons Den Regional Heat](http://www.allaboutbusiness.org.uk/denlive/junior) - Speaking

	
  * 28/4/13: Blick Shared Studios [Creative Camp](http://www.creativecamp2013.com/) - Speaking

	
  * 15/5/13: [Innovation in Northern Ireland: Nesta in Belfast](http://www.nesta.org.uk/events/nesta_road_shows/assets/events/innovation_in_northern_ireland_nesta_in_belfast) - Speaking

	
  * 24/10/13: [TEDxBelfast](http://www.tedxbelfast.com/) Dr Strange Sub or How I learned to stop worrying and accept Emergence - Speaking

Commit message:

Update based on Ben's comments

about.md, after:

---
author: admin
comments: false
date: 2008-08-19 00:52:03+00:00
layout: page
slug: about
group: navigation
title: About Me
---

# Biography

Andrew  is an accomplished technologist, founder of multiple technology-based groups and organisations, an award winning researcher, innovation community leader, and a consummate speaker.

By day, Andrew is a Researcher at The University of Liverpool (formerly at Queen’s University Belfast’s [ECIT](http://ecit.qub.ac.uk) Institute) investigating Trust and Reputation in Marine Communications for Autonomous Systems of Systems under the joint Anglo-French Defence Research Group, established at the [2010 Anglo-French Summit](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lancaster_House_Treaties_%282010%29)

By night, he’s the Founding Director of [Farset Labs](http://farsetlabs.org.uk), Northern Ireland’s [First Hackerspace]({{ BASE_PATH }}/2011/04/why-belfast-needs-a-hackerspace/), located in Weavers Court Business Park, Belfast, as well as consulting local government, business, academia, and the voluntary sector on STEM Outreach, Business Innovation Strategy, and Communications & Data Security.

Andrew [developed]({{ BASE_PATH }}/2010/06/great-hopes/) Farset Labs while finishing off his Masters in Electronics and Software Engineering at QUB. [Farset Labs](http://farsetlabs.org.uk) now provides the technical and entrepreneurial community with a place to share resources, knowledge and experience in a relaxed atmosphere, laying the foundation for the next wave of Northern Irish industry-leading technologists and business leaders.

He’s a recipient of the 2012 [Belfast Business Top 50](http://belfastmediagroup.com/top50/15955-2/) for his work at Farset Labs, the QUB The [T G Christie Award](http://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/AcademicStudentAffairs/AcademicAffairs/ScholarshipsAwards/ScholarshipsAwardsHandbook/ScholarshipsandBursaries/PostgraduateScholarshipsAwards/FacultyofEngineeringandPhysicalSciences/) for Most Promising Postgraduate, and The Liggard Prize for Best Communications Engineering Masters Project. He is an [IET Excellence Grant](http://conferences.theiet.org/achievement/-documents/brochure-2010.cfm) recipient and a National Finalist in the IET Present Around the World competition where he spoke on information theory of social networks in 2010  
<img src="https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/F3Gw2Zy0HKGre0z4ovkDlz4e1WX3E4VCnUrhpQE7QUOuGzIJEXYTO149BBrK2Qqek-F0D9PFq6fvwKL1uZNQ0_DNitjM0lMgBAEsWI_1vUYwGCauHcc4rKYnEg" alt="Me" style="width: 100%;"/>

## What's my Schedule?

<iframe style="border-width: 0;" src="https://www.google.com/calendar/b/0/embed?src=me%40andrewbolster.info&amp;showTitle=0&amp;showPrint=0&amp;showCalendars=0&amp;mode=WEEK&amp;height=600&amp;wkst=2&amp;bgcolor=%23FFFFFF&amp;ctz=Europe%2FLondon" height="600" scrolling="no" width="800" frameborder="0"></iframe>

[My Linkedin Profile](http://www.linkedin.com/in/andrewbolster) - [PDF version](http://www.linkedin.com/profile?viewProfilePDF=&key=41510103)

# Press/Publications/Podcasts

	
  * 18/2/12:[A Different Road](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0262407912604485) - New Scientist

	
  * 25/3/12:[Muckraker Partners with Farset Labs (Blog)](http://muckraker.me/2012/03/25/announcing-the-muckrakers-partnership-with-farset-labs/) - Muckraker

	
  * 18/6/12:[Andrew Bolster from Farset Labs talking to Linzi Corr at ITE Belfast](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qeaN_2xU2hk) - Brightwater Recruitment

	
  * 11/9/12:[Belfast one of 16 UK cities to get 4G mobile services in 2012](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-19558312) - BBC News

	
  * 12/10/12:[Farset Labs makes it into Belfast Business Top 50](http://belfastmediagroup.com/top50/belfast-business-top-50-list-2012/) - Belfast Media Group

	
  * 6/11/12:[The Tech Show (Podcast)](http://eamonnmallie.com/2012/11/tech-show-podcast-episode-26/) - iChrisTaylor

	
  * 19/11/12:[Northern Ireland economy needs to make space for technological innovation and creativity](http://www.businessfirstonline.co.uk/?p=10387) - BusinessFirstOnline

	
  * 17/12/12:[Imagining a Digital Future ](http://www.ulsterbusiness.com/articles/2012/12/17/imagining-a-digital-future)- Ulster Business

	
  * 18/1/13: [Global Game Jam hackathon set for Belfast this month](http://www.siliconrepublic.com/innovation/item/31099-global-game-jam-hackathon/) - Silicon Republic

	
  * 18/1/13: [Weekend hackathon set for Belfast](http://www.ulsterbusiness.com/articles/2013/01/18/weekend-hackathon-set-for-belfast) - Ulster Business

	
  * 21/1/13: [Belfast Hub for Global Games Jam](http://www.newsletter.co.uk/news/business/local-businesses/belfast-hub-for-global-games-jam-1-4705625) - Newsletter

	
  * 23/1/13: [Global Game Jam: Belfast to take part for first time](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-21142798) - BBC News

	
  * 24/1/13: [Global Game Jam Hits Belfast ](http://www.followingthenerd.com/video-games/global-game-jam-hits-belfast/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=global-game-jam-hits-belfast)- Following The Nerd

	
  * 7/2/13: [Tech Britain Coverage](http://techbritain.com/videos/watch/43) - TechBritain

	
  * 5/9/13: [Experimenting with ICT in Belfast ](http://www.agendani.com/experimenting-with-ict-in-belfast/)- AgendaNI

# Speaking Engagements / Panels

	
  * 20/11/12: NISP - [Generation Innovation Awards Ceremony 2012](http://www.nisp.co.uk/top-entrepreneurs-inspire-next-generation/) - Speaking

	
  * 28/11/12: Bank of Ireland [Junior Dragons Den Regional Heat](http://www.allaboutbusiness.org.uk/denlive/junior) - Speaking

	
  * 28/4/13: Blick Shared Studios [Creative Camp](http://www.creativecamp2013.com/) - Speaking

	
  * 15/5/13: [Innovation in Northern Ireland: Nesta in Belfast](http://www.nesta.org.uk/events/nesta_road_shows/assets/events/innovation_in_northern_ireland_nesta_in_belfast) - Speaking

	
  * 24/10/13: [TEDxBelfast](http://www.tedxbelfast.com/) Dr Strange Sub or How I learned to stop worrying and accept Emergence - Speaking
