resume/AndrewBolster-Resume.md, before:

---
author: admin
comments: false
date: 2008-08-19 00:52:03+00:00
layout: resume
slug: resume
group: navigation
title: Resume
---
![](/img/bolster.png)

# Andrew Bolster

 * [me@andrewbolster.info](mailto:me@andrewbolster.info)
 * [bolster@liv.ac.uk](mailto:bolster@liv.ac.uk)
 * [(+44) 07783249547](tel:+447783249547)
 * [andrewbolster.info](http://andrewbolster.info)

## Background

Data Scientist with a range of skills and experiences across defence research, business, community and entrepreneurial fields, looking for new challenges from mid-2016 

Originally based in Northern Ireland, currently concluding PhD Research at the University of Liverpool as part of a Anglo-French Defence Programme on the use of Trust in Physical and Communicatinos Behaviour Assessments for Autonomous Submarines for Marine Survey and Monitoring.

Specific interests in and around distributed systems, 'trust' in insecure environments, autonomous and mixed-human-autonomous systems, software engineering best practices, STEM outreach, community management and development, market analysis and innovation strategy.

Experienced Speaker, Panelist and commentator, with appearances at Regional, National and International Events..


## Proficiency

### Technical

Software Engineering, Embedded Systems, IoT, Linux/UNIX, Python, C/C++, Java, Network Security and Engineering, Localisation/Positioning, Agent-Based Development, OOP, TDD, Cloud and Distributed Systems Architecture, Heroku, Google Apps, High Performance Computing, GPGPU, Telecommunications Engineering, Electronics, DVCS

### Professional

Public Speaking, Presentation Developement, Collaboration Facilitation, Event Mgmt., Project Mgmt., Marketing Strategy, Social Engagement Strategy, Operational Workflow Development, STEM Outreach.

## Notable Publications
* [Analytical Metric Weight Generation for Multi-Domain Trust in Autonomous Underwater MANETs - Invited paper for Underwater Communications Security session at IEEE UComms 2016, Lerici, Italy](http://bolster.online/bolster/16_UComms_bolster_preprint.pdf), 2016
* [Physical Behaviours for Trust Assessment in Autonomous Underwater MANETs - Submitted to The 13th IEEE International Conference on Mobile Ad hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS), Brasilia, Brasil](http://bolster.online/bolster/16_MASS_bolster_preprint.pdf), 2016
* [Single and Multi-metric Trust Management Frameworks for Use in Underwater Autonomous Networks. In Trustcom/BigDataSE/ISPA, 2015 IEEE, Helsinki, Finland](http://doi.org/10.1109/Trustcom.2015.435), 2015
*  [GPS III: Where are we and Where are we going?](http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/gps-iii-going/), MakeUseOf 2015
*  [How do Optical and Quantum Computers work?](http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/optical-quantum-computers-work/), MakeUseOf 2015
*  [How The Future Gigabit Internet Is Likely To Play Out](http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/future-gigabit-internet-likely-play/), MakeUseOf 2015
* [Analysis of Trust Interfaces in Autonomous and Semi-Autonomous Collaborative MHPC Operations](), The Technical Cooperation Program, Technical Report TR-C3I-06-2014, May 14, 2014, Portsmouth, UK *not publically available*
* [A Multi-Vector Trust Framework for Autonomous Systems](http://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/SSS/SSS14/paper/view/7697), AAAI Spring Symposium Series, March 2014, Stanford CA, USA
*  [High-Speed bit-loading algorithms for Dynamic Spectrum Management in ADSL](https://github.com/andrewbolster/multiuserDSM/raw/master/Dissertation/FINALFINAL.pdf), MEng Thesis, 2011, Belfast, UK

## Experience

### TOM Ltd, Belfast / Liverpool, UK
![](/img/spriteguard.png)

#### Associate / SpriteGuard Product Manager (PT 2012 - 2014)

Traffic Observation and Management is a university spin-out company specialising in advanced wireless security systems for the public hotspot and payments services industries.

Contributed to ongoing development and refinement of the core SpriteGuard product structure and marketing, including stakeholder discussion and trade show representation.

In addition, as part of a Centre for Defence Enterprise (UK) call, took part in a collaborative development programme with National Physical Laboratories (NPL, Teddington) and Plextek Ltd, (Cambridge) around the development of dynamic localisation in GPS-denied environments for marine platforms.

### Farset Labs, Belfast, UK

![](/img/farsetlabs.png)

####Founder/Director (PT 2011 - Present)

Created Farset Labs in response to a demonstrated need for an independent, non-profit, charitable community of technology innovators, providing them a open space and shared resources to experiment, explore, and grow themselves, their projects, and relationships with local and global business. 

Building Farset Labs as a hub for the tech community in Belfast and Northern Ireland as a whole, ensuring that the organisation remains agile and true to its core values.

Currently Farset Labs stands as a valued part of the technology, entrepreneurship, and STEM outreach communities, with collaborations with academia, government, and the private sector across Northern Ireland

### Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, Portsdown West, UK

![](/img/dstl.png)

####Summer Secondment: Analyst (2013) 

Coordinating research between Information Management and Naval Systems departments to synthesize an approach towards maritime autonomy.

Culminated in significant contribution to a Five-Eyes Autonomy Exchange project.

### PC Engines GmbH, Zurich, Switzerland

![](/img/PC-Engines.png)

####Summer Secondment: Embedded Developer (2011)

Implementing and prototyping next generation embedded computing platforms and contributing to the Coreboot, SerialICE and FlashROM Open source Projects.

### Navigator Blue, Belfast, UK

![](/img/blu.png)

####Technical Consultant (PT 2009-2010)

Application of technical knowledge and experience around Social Marketing and Customer Relationship Management to a leading Marketing and Advertising Firm. Responsibilities included strategic report generation for the creative director around the growth of social media marketing, relevant technologies such as Google Analytics for performance stracking and RFID / Smart Phone / Geo-location for targeted advertising. Directly contributed and presented at tender presentations.

### Ericsson LMI, Athlone, ROI

![](/img/ericsson.png)

#### Year in Industry: Software Test Engineer (2008 - 2009)

Working to streamline the product release cycle from a waterfall style development to a more Agile, incremental system. In my work i have reduced release testing time from three days to half an hour, with fully automated reporting for a Proprietary client application. I later moved on to server-side performance benchmarking for multi-gigabyte aggregation applications built on MySQL. During this time, I implemented testing strategies not only for the client devices, but also for that test suite itself, and a 'watchdog' system for the server-side processing; this was very useful as during my time at Ericsson, they made the migration from Solaris SPARC to Solaris x86, and my automated testing systems greatly sped up the integration testing of the migration.

## Education

### University of Liverpool

![](/img/livuni.png)

####PhD Researcher (2013 - present)

*"An Investigation into Trust and Reputation Frameworks for Collaborative Teams of Autonomous Underwater Vehicles"*

Working in the area of trust and security in telecommunications and autonomous networks for marine environments as part of a joint UK-FR PhD programme.

The programme was agreed at the 2010 Anglo-French Summit as one of the ten priorities in 2011 for the Anglo French Defence Research Group (AFDRG).

### Queen's University Belfast

![](/img/qubuni.png)

####MEng Electronics and Software Engineering

This is a four-year Extended Engineering course. It has been established to provide an adequate supply of well-qualified engineers with an appropriate blend of engineering knowledge and skills in business practice and management.

Concentrations in High Performance Computing, and Digital Communications. Also sat on as Student Representative througout my time at Queen's, culminating in a chairmanship for my final year.

MEng Project: *"High-Speed bit-loading algorithms for Dynamic Spectrum Management in ADSL"*


## Awards and Honours

* Belfast Media Group *Belfast Business Top 50 2012* for entrepreneurial leadership related to Farset Labs
* Queen's University Belfast *TG Christie Award* for most promising incoming research student
* Queen's University Belfast *Linggard Prize* for best Masters project in Communication Engineering
* Queen's University Belfast *Certificate in Entrepreneurship*
* The IET *Excellence Grant* for Academic Progress and STEM outreach activities
* The IET *Present Around The World Finalist* for presentation on Social Media Security and Online Data Safety in the emerging personal-data economy
* City & Guilds *Licentiateship in Information Technology* for Software Engineering work undertaken at Ericsson

## Professional Associations

* Institution of Engineering and Technology - Member
* Marine Technology Society - Member

Commit message:

just realised I made changes to resume on the fly and havent pulled...

resume/AndrewBolster-Resume.md, after:

---
author: admin
comments: false
date: 2008-08-19 00:52:03+00:00
layout: resume
slug: resume
group: navigation
title: Resume
---
![](/img/bolster.png)

# Andrew Bolster

 * [me@andrewbolster.info](mailto:me@andrewbolster.info)
 * [bolster@liv.ac.uk](mailto:bolster@liv.ac.uk)
 * [(+44) 07783249547](tel:+447783249547)
 * [andrewbolster.info](http://andrewbolster.info)

## Background

Data Scientist with a range of skills and experiences across defence research, business, community and entrepreneurial fields, looking for new challenges from mid-2016 

Originally based in Northern Ireland, currently concluding PhD Research at the University of Liverpool as part of a Anglo-French Defence Programme on the use of Trust in Physical and Communicatinos Behaviour Assessments for Autonomous Submarines for Marine Survey and Monitoring.

Specific interests in and around distributed systems, 'trust' in insecure environments, autonomous and mixed-human-autonomous systems, software engineering best practices, STEM outreach, community management and development, market analysis and innovation strategy.

Experienced Speaker, Panelist and commentator, with appearances at Regional, National and International Events..


## Proficiency

### Technical

Software Engineering, Embedded Systems, IoT, Linux/UNIX, Python, C/C++, Java, Network Security and Engineering, Localisation/Positioning, Agent-Based Development, OOP, TDD, Cloud and Distributed Systems Architecture, Heroku, Google Apps, High Performance Computing, GPGPU, Telecommunications Engineering, Electronics, DVCS

### Professional

Public Speaking, Presentation Developement, Collaboration Facilitation, Event Mgmt., Project Mgmt., Marketing Strategy, Social Engagement Strategy, Operational Workflow Development, STEM Outreach.

## Notable Publications
* [Analytical Metric Weight Generation for Multi-Domain Trust in Autonomous Underwater MANETs - Invited paper for Underwater Communications Security session at IEEE UComms 2016, Lerici, Italy](http://bolster.online/bolster/16_UComms_bolster_preprint.pdf), 2016
* [Physical Behaviours for Trust Assessment in Autonomous Underwater MANETs - Submitted to The 13th IEEE International Conference on Mobile Ad hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS), Brasilia, Brasil](http://bolster.online/bolster/16_MASS_bolster_preprint.pdf), 2016
* [Single and Multi-metric Trust Management Frameworks for Use in Underwater Autonomous Networks. In Trustcom/BigDataSE/ISPA, 2015 IEEE, Helsinki, Finland](http://doi.org/10.1109/Trustcom.2015.435), 2015
*  [GPS III: Where are we and Where are we going?](http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/gps-iii-going/), MakeUseOf 2015
*  [How do Optical and Quantum Computers work?](http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/optical-quantum-computers-work/), MakeUseOf 2015
*  [How The Future Gigabit Internet Is Likely To Play Out](http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/future-gigabit-internet-likely-play/), MakeUseOf 2015
* [Analysis of Trust Interfaces in Autonomous and Semi-Autonomous Collaborative MHPC Operations](), The Technical Cooperation Program, Technical Report TR-C3I-06-2014, May 14, 2014, Portsmouth, UK *not publically available*
* [A Multi-Vector Trust Framework for Autonomous Systems](http://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/SSS/SSS14/paper/view/7697), AAAI Spring Symposium Series, March 2014, Stanford CA, USA
*  [High-Speed bit-loading algorithms for Dynamic Spectrum Management in ADSL](https://github.com/andrewbolster/multiuserDSM/raw/master/Dissertation/FINALFINAL.pdf), MEng Thesis, 2011, Belfast, UK

## Experience

### TOM Ltd, Belfast / Liverpool, UK
![](/img/spriteguard.png)

#### Associate / SpriteGuard Product Manager (PT 2012 - 2014)

Traffic Observation and Management is a university spin-out company specialising in advanced wireless security systems for the public hotspot and payments services industries.

Contributed to ongoing development and refinement of the core SpriteGuard product structure and marketing, including stakeholder discussion and trade show representation.

In addition, as part of a Centre for Defence Enterprise (UK) call, took part in a collaborative development programme with National Physical Laboratories (NPL, Teddington) and Plextek Ltd, (Cambridge) around the development of dynamic localisation in GPS-denied environments for marine platforms.

### Farset Labs, Belfast, UK

![](/img/farsetlabs.png)

####Founder/Director (PT 2011 - Present)

Created Farset Labs in response to a demonstrated need for an independent, non-profit, charitable community of technology innovators, providing them a open space and shared resources to experiment, explore, and grow themselves, their projects, and relationships with local and global business. 

Building Farset Labs as a hub for the technology community in Belfast and Northern Ireland as a whole, ensuring that the organisation remains agile and true to its core values.

Currently Farset Labs stands as a valued part of the technology, entrepreneurship, and STEM outreach communities, with collaborations with academia, government, and the private sector across Northern Ireland

### Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, Portsdown West, UK

![](/img/dstl.png)

####Summer Secondment: Analyst (2013) 

Coordinating research between Information Management and Naval Systems departments to synthesize a coordinated, data driven approach towards maritime autonomy and its potential applications.

Culminated in significant contribution to a Five-Eyes Autonomy Exchange project.

### PC Engines GmbH, Zurich, Switzerland

![](/img/PC-Engines.png)

####Summer Secondment: Embedded Developer (2011)

Implementing and prototyping next generation embedded computing platforms and contributing to the Coreboot, SerialICE and FlashROM Open source Projects.

### Navigator Blue, Belfast, UK

![](/img/blu.png)

####Technical Consultant (PT 2009-2010)

Application of technical knowledge and experience around Social Marketing and Customer Relationship Management to a leading Marketing and Advertising Firm. Responsibilities included strategic report generation for the creative director around the growth of social media marketing, relevant technologies such as Google Analytics for performance stracking and RFID / Smart Phone / Geo-location for targeted advertising. Directly contributed and presented at tender presentations.

### Ericsson LMI, Athlone, ROI

![](/img/ericsson.png)

#### Software Test Engineer (2008 - 2009)

Implementation of an Agile, Unit tested and Continuously Integrated product release cycle to global 4G test infrastructure, reducing pre-deployment testing from three days to less than an hour, with fully automated reporting for a proprietary deployment application. I later moved on to server-side performance benchmarking for multi-gigabyte aggregation applications built on MySQL and Erlang. Participated in deployment planning for internal migration from SPARC to Solaris x86 porting, where my automated testing systems greatly improved the speed asnd confidence of this migration.

## Education

### University of Liverpool

![](/img/livuni.png)

####PhD Researcher (2013 - present)

*"An Investigation into Trust and Reputation Frameworks for Collaborative Teams of Autonomous Underwater Vehicles"*

Working in the area of trust and security in telecommunications and autonomous networks for marine environments as part of a joint UK-FR PhD programme.

The programme was agreed at the 2010 Anglo-French Summit as one of the ten priorities in 2011 for the Anglo French Defence Research Group (AFDRG).

Included collaborations with:
* National Physical Laboratory (NPL) on Enhanced Kalman Filtering for acoustic marine localisation
* NATO Centre for Maritime Research and Experimentation on REMUS payload scoping and potential malicious misbehaviours of autonomous AUVs
* Defence Science dd

### Queen's University Belfast

![](/img/qubuni.png)

####MEng Electronics and Software Engineering

This is a four-year Extended Engineering course. It has been established to provide an adequate supply of well-qualified engineers with an appropriate blend of engineering knowledge and skills in business practice and management.

Concentrations in High Performance Computing, and Digital Communications. Also sat on as Student Representative througout my time at Queen's, culminating in a chairmanship for my final year.

MEng Project: *"High-Speed bit-loading algorithms for Dynamic Spectrum Management in ADSL"*


## Awards and Honours

* Belfast Media Group *Belfast Business Top 50 2012* for entrepreneurial leadership related to Farset Labs
* Queen's University Belfast *TG Christie Award* for most promising incoming research student
* Queen's University Belfast *Linggard Prize* for best Masters project in Communication Engineering
* Queen's University Belfast *Certificate in Entrepreneurship*
* The IET *Excellence Grant* for Academic Progress and STEM outreach activities
* The IET *Present Around The World Finalist* for presentation on Social Media Security and Online Data Safety in the emerging personal-data economy
* City & Guilds *Licentiateship in Information Technology* for Software Engineering work undertaken at Ericsson

## Professional Associations

* Institution of Engineering and Technology - Member
* Marine Technology Society - Member
